One Piece (stylized in all caps) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Eiichiro Oda. It follows the adventures of Monkey D. Luffy and his crew, the Straw Hats, as he searches for the legendary treasure known as the "One Piece" to become the next King of the Pirates. The manga has been serialized in Shueisha's shōnen manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump since July 1997, with its chapters compiled in 114 tankōbon volumes as of March 2026. It was licensed for an English-language release in North America and the United Kingdom by Viz Media and in Australia by Madman Entertainment.

Becoming a media franchise, it has been adapted into a festival film by Production I.G, and an anime series by Toei Animation, which premiered in October 1999. Additionally, Toei has developed 14 animated feature films and one original video animation (OVA). Several companies have developed various types of merchandising and media, such as a trading card game and video games. Netflix released a live-action TV series in 2023. Another anime series produced by Wit Studio is scheduled to premiere in 2027.

One Piece has received praise for its storytelling, expansive worldbuilding, art, characterization, and humor. It is regarded by critics and readers as one of the greatest manga series of all time. By March 2026, it had over 600 million copies in circulation worldwide, making it the best-selling comic series in volume format and the best-selling manga series ever. It holds various publishing records, including the highest initial print run for any book in Japan. In 2015 and 2022, it set the Guinness World Record for "most copies published for the same comic book series by a single author". It was the best-selling manga for 11 consecutive years (2008–2018) and remains the only series with over 3 million initial prints for over ten years, as well as the only one with every of its over 100 published tankōbon volumes selling over 1 million copies. Since 2008, it has consistently ranked first in Oricon's weekly comic chart.